in 1995 John Connor is living in Los
Angeles with foster parents his mother
Sarah Connor had been preparing him
throughout his childhood for his future
role as the human resistance leader
against Skynet the artificial
intelligence that will be given control
of the United States nuclear missiles
and initiate a nuclear holocaust called
Judgment Day on August 29th 1997 but was
arrested and imprisoned at a mental
hospital after attempting to bomb a
computer factory in 2029 Skynet sends a
new terminator designated as t1000 back
in time to kill John the t1000 is an
advanced prototype made out of liquid
metal that gives it the ability to take
on the shape and appearance of almost
anything it touches and to transform its
arms into blades and other shapes at
will the t1000 arrives under a freeway
kills a policeman and assumes his
identity meanwhile the future John
Connor has sent back a reprogrammed t800
Terminator to protect his young self the
Terminator and the t1000 converge on
John in a shopping mall and a chase
ensues after which John and the
Terminator escaped together on a
motorcycle fearing that the t1000 will
kill Sarah in order to get to him
John orders the Terminator to help free
her after discovering that the
Terminator must follow his orders they
encounter Sarah as she's escaping from
the hospital although she is initially
reluctant to trust the t800 after the
trio escapes from the t1000 in a police
car the Terminator informs John and
Sarah about Skynet's history Sarah
learns that the man most directly
responsible for Skynet's creation his
Miles Bennett Dyson a Cyberdyne systems
engineer working on a revolutionary new
neural net processor that will form the
basis for Skynet Sarah gathers weapons
from an old friend and plans to flee
with John to Mexico but after having a
nightmare about Judgment Day she instead
sets out to kill Dyson in order to
prevent Judgment Day from occurring
finding him at his home she wounds him
but finds herself unable to kill him in
front of his family
John and the Terminator arrive and
inform Dyson of the future consequences
of his work they learned that much of
his research has been reverse-engineered
from the damaged CPU and the right arm
of the previous Terminator who attacked
Sarah back in 1984 convincing him that
these items and his
designs must be destroyed they break
into the Cyberdyne building retrieved
the CPU and the arm and set explosives
to destroy Dyson's lab the police
arrived and Dyson is fatally shot but he
rigs an improvised Deadman switch that
detonates the explosives when he dies
the t1000 relentlessly pursues the
surviving trio eventually cornering them
in a steel mill the t1000 is frozen with
liquid nitrogen and shattered but
manages to reform itself
the t1000 and the t800 fight and the
more advanced model seriously damages
and shuts down the t800 however
unbeknownst to the t1000 the t800 brings
itself back online using emergency power
the t1000 nearly kills John and Sarah
but the t800 takes it by surprise and
blasts it into a vat of molten steel
with a grenade launcher destroying it
John tosses the arm and CPU of the
original Terminator into the VAT as well
as Sarah expresses relief that the
ordeal is over the Terminator explains
that to ensure that it is not used for
reverse engineering it must also be
destroyed it asks Sarah to assist in
lowering it into the VAT of molten steel
since it is unable to self terminate
although John begs and eventually orders
the Terminator to reconsider it makes
the decision to disobey Him bids them
farewell and hugs a tearful John before
it is lowered into the VAT giving a
final thumbs up as it disappears into
the molten steel John and Sarah drive
down a highway and Sarah says in a voice
over the unknown future rolls toward us
I face it for the first time with a
sense of hope because of a machine a
terminator can learn the value of human
life
maybe we can too